README.rst, before:

Lending Club API
================

A stand-alone python module for interacting with your Lending Club account. In a nutshell, it lets you check your cash balance, search for notes, build orders, invest and more.

Disclaimer
----------

I have tested this tool to the best of my ability, but understand that it may have bugs. Use at your own risk!

Requirements
------------

The following Python libraries are required:

* `requests <http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/>`_
* `beautifulsoup4 <http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/>`_
* `html5lib <https://github.com/html5lib/html5lib-python>`_
* `pybars <https://github.com/wbond/pybars>`_

These can automatically be installed with `pip <http://www.pip-installer.org/en/latest/>`_::

    sudo pip install requests beautifulsoup4 html5lib pybars


Install
-------

To install, run::

    sudo python ./setup.py install

Documentation
-------------
View the full `API documentation <https://python-lendingclub.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_.

Examples
--------
Here are a few examples, in the python interactive shell, of using the Lending Club API module.

Simple Search and Order
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Searching for grade B loans and investing $25 in the first one you find::

    >>> from lendingclub import LendingClub
    >>> from lendingclub.filters import Filter
    >>> lc = LendingClub()
    >>> lc.authenticate()
    Email:test@test.com
    Password:
    True
    >>> filters = Filter()
    >>> filters['grades']['B'] = True      # Filter for only B grade loans
    >>> results = lc.search(filters)       # Search using this filter
    >>> len(results['loans'])              # See how many results returned
    100
    >>> results['loans'][0]['loan_id']     # See the loan_id of the first loan
    1763030
    >>> order = lc.start_order()           # Start a new investment order
    >>> order.add(1763030, 25)             # Add the first loan to the order with a $25 investment
    >>> order.execute()                    # Execute the order
    1861879
    >>> order.order_id                     # See the order ID
    1861879
    >>> order.assign_to_portfolio('Foo')   # Assign the loans in this order to a portfolio called 'Foo'
    True

Invest in a Portfolio of Loans
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Here we want to invest $400 in a portfolio with only B, C, D and E grade notes with an average overall return between 17% - 19%. This similar to finding a portfolio in the 'Invest' section on lendingclub.com::

    >>> from lendingclub import LendingClub
    >>> from lendingclub.filters import Filter
    >>> lc = LendingClub()
    >>> lc.authenticate()
    Email:test@test.com
    Password:
    True
    >>> filters = Filter()                # Set the filters
    >>> filters['grades']['B'] = True     # See Pro Tips for a shorter way to do this
    >>> filters['grades']['C'] = True
    >>> filters['grades']['D'] = True
    >>> filters['grades']['E'] = True
    >>> lc.get_cash_balance()             # See the cash you have available for investing
    463.80000000000001
                                          # Find a portfolio to invest in ($400, between 17-19%, $25 per note)
    >>> portfolio = lc.build_portfolio(400,
            min_percent=17.0,
            max_percent=19.0,
            max_per_note=25,
            filters=filters)

    >>> len(portfolio['loan_fractions'])  # See how many loans are in this portfolio
    16
    >>> loans_notes = portfolio['loan_fractions']
    >>> order = lc.start_order()          # Start a new order
    >>> order.add_batch(loans_notes)      # Add the loans to the order
    >>> order.execute()                   # Execute the order
    1861880

Your Loan Notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Get a list of the loan notes that you have **already** invested in (by default this will only return 100 at a time)::

    >>> from lendingclub import LendingClub
    >>> lc = LendingClub()
    >>> lc.authenticate()
    Email:test@test.com
    Password:
    True
    >>> notes = lc.my_notes()                  # Get the first 100 loan notes
    >>> len(notes['loans'])
    100
    >>> notes['total']                          # See the total number of loan notes you have
    630
    >>> notes = lc.my_notes(start_index=100)   # Get the next 100 loan notes
    >>> len(notes['loans'])
    100
    >>> notes = lc.my_notes(get_all=True)       # Get all notes in one request (may be slow)
    >>> len(notes['loans'])
    630

Using Saved Filters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Use a filter saved on lendingclub.com to search for loans **SEE NOTE BELOW**::

    >>> from lendingclub import LendingClub
    >>> from lendingclub.filters import SavedFilter
    >>> lc = LendingClub()
    >>> lc.authenticate()
    Email:test@test.com
    Password:
    True
    >>> filters = lc.get_saved_filters()         # Get a list of all saved filters on LendinClub.com
    >>> print filters                            # I've pretty printed the output for you
    [
        <SavedFilter: 12345, '90 Percent'>,
        <SavedFilter: 23456, 'Only A loans'>
    ]
    >>> filter = lc.get_saved_filter(23456)      # Load a saved filter by ID 7611034
    >>> filter.name
    u'Only A'
    >>> results = lc.search(filter)              # Search for loan notes with that filter
    >>> len(results['loans'])
    100

**NOTE:** When using saved search filters you should always confirm that the returned results match your filters. This is because LendingClub's search API is not very forgiving. When we get the saved filter from the server and then send it to the search API, if any part of it has been altered or becomes corrupt, LendingClub will do a wildcard search instead of using the filter. The code in this python module takes great care to keep the filter pristine and check for inconsistencies, but that's no substitute for the individual investor's diligence.

Batch Investing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Invest in a list of loans in one action::

    >>> from lendingclub import LendingClub
    >>> lc = LendingClub(email='test@test.com', password='secret123')
    >>> lc.authenticate()
    True
    >>> loans = [1234, 2345, 3456]       # Create a list of loan IDs
    >>> order = lc.start_order()          # Start a new order
    >>> order.add_batch(loans, 25)        # Invest $25 in each loan
    >>> order.execute()                   # Execute the order
    1861880


Pro Tips
--------

Email/Password
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Set your email/password when you initialize the LendingClub object::

    lc = LendingClub(email='you@your.com', password='illnevertell')

Filter One-liner
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Define some of your filters in the init line::

    filters = Filter({'grades': {'B': True, 'C': True, 'D': True, 'E': True}})


License
=======
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2013 Jeremy Gillick

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Update installation sections
since pip automatically installs dependencies

README.rst, after:

Lending Club API
================

A stand-alone python module for interacting with your Lending Club account. In a nutshell, it lets you check your cash balance, search for notes, build orders, invest and more.

Disclaimer
----------

I have tested this tool to the best of my ability, but understand that it may have bugs. Use at your own risk!

Dependencies
------------

The following Python libraries are required (ignore if installing with pip):

* `requests <http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/>`_
* `beautifulsoup4 <http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/>`_
* `html5lib <https://github.com/html5lib/html5lib-python>`_
* `pybars <https://github.com/wbond/pybars>`_


Install with PIP
----------------

The easiest way to install is with `pip <http://www.pip-installer.org/en/latest/>`_::

    sudo pip install lendingclub

Install Manually
-----------------

First make sure the dependencies are instaled and then run::

    sudo python ./setup.py install

Documentation
-------------
View the full `API documentation <https://python-lendingclub.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_.

Examples
--------
Here are a few examples, in the python interactive shell, of using the Lending Club API module.

Simple Search and Order
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Searching for grade B loans and investing $25 in the first one you find::

    >>> from lendingclub import LendingClub
    >>> from lendingclub.filters import Filter
    >>> lc = LendingClub()
    >>> lc.authenticate()
    Email:test@test.com
    Password:
    True
    >>> filters = Filter()
    >>> filters['grades']['B'] = True      # Filter for only B grade loans
    >>> results = lc.search(filters)       # Search using this filter
    >>> len(results['loans'])              # See how many results returned
    100
    >>> results['loans'][0]['loan_id']     # See the loan_id of the first loan
    1763030
    >>> order = lc.start_order()           # Start a new investment order
    >>> order.add(1763030, 25)             # Add the first loan to the order with a $25 investment
    >>> order.execute()                    # Execute the order
    1861879
    >>> order.order_id                     # See the order ID
    1861879
    >>> order.assign_to_portfolio('Foo')   # Assign the loans in this order to a portfolio called 'Foo'
    True

Invest in a Portfolio of Loans
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Here we want to invest $400 in a portfolio with only B, C, D and E grade notes with an average overall return between 17% - 19%. This similar to finding a portfolio in the 'Invest' section on lendingclub.com::

    >>> from lendingclub import LendingClub
    >>> from lendingclub.filters import Filter
    >>> lc = LendingClub()
    >>> lc.authenticate()
    Email:test@test.com
    Password:
    True
    >>> filters = Filter()                # Set the filters
    >>> filters['grades']['B'] = True     # See Pro Tips for a shorter way to do this
    >>> filters['grades']['C'] = True
    >>> filters['grades']['D'] = True
    >>> filters['grades']['E'] = True
    >>> lc.get_cash_balance()             # See the cash you have available for investing
    463.80000000000001
                                          # Find a portfolio to invest in ($400, between 17-19%, $25 per note)
    >>> portfolio = lc.build_portfolio(400,
            min_percent=17.0,
            max_percent=19.0,
            max_per_note=25,
            filters=filters)

    >>> len(portfolio['loan_fractions'])  # See how many loans are in this portfolio
    16
    >>> loans_notes = portfolio['loan_fractions']
    >>> order = lc.start_order()          # Start a new order
    >>> order.add_batch(loans_notes)      # Add the loans to the order
    >>> order.execute()                   # Execute the order
    1861880

Your Loan Notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Get a list of the loan notes that you have **already** invested in (by default this will only return 100 at a time)::

    >>> from lendingclub import LendingClub
    >>> lc = LendingClub()
    >>> lc.authenticate()
    Email:test@test.com
    Password:
    True
    >>> notes = lc.my_notes()                  # Get the first 100 loan notes
    >>> len(notes['loans'])
    100
    >>> notes['total']                          # See the total number of loan notes you have
    630
    >>> notes = lc.my_notes(start_index=100)   # Get the next 100 loan notes
    >>> len(notes['loans'])
    100
    >>> notes = lc.my_notes(get_all=True)       # Get all notes in one request (may be slow)
    >>> len(notes['loans'])
    630

Using Saved Filters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Use a filter saved on lendingclub.com to search for loans **SEE NOTE BELOW**::

    >>> from lendingclub import LendingClub
    >>> from lendingclub.filters import SavedFilter
    >>> lc = LendingClub()
    >>> lc.authenticate()
    Email:test@test.com
    Password:
    True
    >>> filters = lc.get_saved_filters()         # Get a list of all saved filters on LendinClub.com
    >>> print filters                            # I've pretty printed the output for you
    [
        <SavedFilter: 12345, '90 Percent'>,
        <SavedFilter: 23456, 'Only A loans'>
    ]
    >>> filter = lc.get_saved_filter(23456)      # Load a saved filter by ID 7611034
    >>> filter.name
    u'Only A'
    >>> results = lc.search(filter)              # Search for loan notes with that filter
    >>> len(results['loans'])
    100

**NOTE:** When using saved search filters you should always confirm that the returned results match your filters. This is because LendingClub's search API is not very forgiving. When we get the saved filter from the server and then send it to the search API, if any part of it has been altered or becomes corrupt, LendingClub will do a wildcard search instead of using the filter. The code in this python module takes great care to keep the filter pristine and check for inconsistencies, but that's no substitute for the individual investor's diligence.

Batch Investing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Invest in a list of loans in one action::

    >>> from lendingclub import LendingClub
    >>> lc = LendingClub(email='test@test.com', password='secret123')
    >>> lc.authenticate()
    True
    >>> loans = [1234, 2345, 3456]       # Create a list of loan IDs
    >>> order = lc.start_order()          # Start a new order
    >>> order.add_batch(loans, 25)        # Invest $25 in each loan
    >>> order.execute()                   # Execute the order
    1861880


Pro Tips
--------

Email/Password
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Set your email/password when you initialize the LendingClub object::

    lc = LendingClub(email='you@your.com', password='illnevertell')

Filter One-liner
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Define some of your filters in the init line::

    filters = Filter({'grades': {'B': True, 'C': True, 'D': True, 'E': True}})


License
=======
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2013 Jeremy Gillick

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
